[Music]
the PSP is home to many games that never
made it to the West may that be entries
in the Soden series or several Yakuza
games but the one that fans seem to be
most vocal about has to be valkaria
Chronicles 3E after two hugely
successful games the third entry felt
like a true culmination of everything
that have been learned along the way and
will go on to become what is quite
easily the best in the series to date
it's basically a tactical RPG which sees
you having the command of a squad known
as the nameless which are made up of
several units where you must use each of
their unique qualities in tandem to
claim victory once you're on the
battlefield everything revolves around
something called The Blitz system that
was used in the previous games but now
comes with several tweaks and
improvements that serve to make the
gameplay more streamlined it splits the
action between an overhead command View
and upon executing a command it throws
you into a third person perspective to
control your unit and carry out your
attack as with many tactical RPGs player
progression also plays a huge part in
the proceedings and sees you being able
to evolve your team over the course of
the game with more powerful attacks and
options that severely increase the
amount of ways you can complete a
mission to top this off you can switch a
character's class at any time which is a
huge improvement over the second game
that requires you to grind for special
items in order to do so as a result
there's a lot lot more room for
experimentation that allows the player
to settle into a strategy quickly and
use it to their advantage with it now
having a full English translation it's
never been easier to jump into one of
the PSP's most addictive and rewarding
tactical RPGs so if you're looking for
your next strategy fix valkaria
Chronicles 3 is one you will not want to
skip ddia 12 is basically an expansion
of the original game that was released
to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the
Final Fantasy series it's a fighting
game that incorporates RPG elements and
brings together several characters from
the history of the franchise and with
this entry a few new characters and
stages were added into the mix along
with a new story mode and several
changes that make it an even better
offering than the original game play
sees you running around in a 3D
environment jumping dodging and
attacking with your main goal being to
reduce the enemy's HP to zero just like
in any other fighter or RPG what makes
it stand out though is the method you
use to do so as well as your HP count
each fighter also has a second gauge
known as bravery that represents the
amount of HP the enemy will lose with a
successful HP attack by using special
bravery attacks you can reduce their
amount while augmenting yours eventually
decreasing Theirs to zero which grants
you even higher amounts of Bravery to
mop the floor with them there's also one
other aspect to each fight known as the
ex Exar and once it's full you can enter
EX Mode where your character is granted
special abilities as well as being able
to regain their health if you you
connect with a HP attack whilst in this
state you have a certain amount of time
to press square to perform that
character's ex burst which is a flashy
cool looking attack that can potentially
deal crap loads of damage now one area
where the game clearly excels is with
its visuals the graphics are just
phenomenal and evidently push the PSP to
its absolute limits the cutcenes and
animations in battle are much better
than from the last game given an
improved frame rate and visual appeal
that makes it what is quite easily one
of the finest looking games you'll find
on the and held overall it's easy to
recommend this game to fighting fans as
well as those of you who are fond of
Final Fantasy so if you never got round
to it when it first released it's still
just as enjoyable as it was back
then when it comes to Platformers Mega
Man has always been one of the more
prolific franchises that have gone on to
influence the genre as it's evolved over
time from its first appearance on NES
right up to the present day it's seen
countless iterations spin-offs and
collections that have kept it relevant
throughout the years by far one of my
favorite games in the series has to be
powered up on the PSP that unfortunately
is still stuck on the handheld it's
essentially a remake of the first game
that features a wealth of new content to
make your way through such as a
fully-fledged story as well as several
other modes that help increase the value
of the game in meaningful ways the game
play is delightfully simple and like
every Mega Man Sid scroller you can
shoot jump climb ladders and move around
and it may not seem like much but since
most of the levels are designed in such
a great way the game play works well and
can be extremely enjoyable not to
mention refreshingly challenging but
what makes it even more interesting is
that throughout the game you were tasked
with taking down several bosses or Robot
Masters as the game calls them and upon
their defeat you get to wield the weapon
they once called their own because of
this throughout the game you're
constantly getting new abilities such as
bombs and new types of blasters that
help mix up the game playay and improve
your chances against some of the more
challenging aspects of it it's clear
that a lot of work went into the game
and it shows every second of play for a
portable game the production values are
simply astonishing that makes this so
much more than a simple remake Mega Man
fans will love the game and it's a great
starting off point for beginners to get
into the series as
well Sal trigger is a turn-based jrpg
that all revolves around a tribe known
as the people of light who have been
oppressed and used as a source of energy
by other humans for centuries naturally
it doesn't take long for an uprising to
start and this is where the player takes
control of the leag leader of the
resistance who bands together with a
group of like-minded individuals and a
bid to fight for their freedom now let's
talk about gameplay which is split up
into bouts of exploration and combat as
you explore you'll be coming into
contact with a cast of colorful NPCs
that serve to move the story along and
bring context to the world around you
whereas in battle it shares much with
the likes of the early Dragon Quest
games and chooses to portray each
encounter in a firsters view when it
comes to your turntin you can choose
from a basic attack skills items or
defend with skills being beholden to the
amount of Assa you currently have this
statistic basically stands in as this
game's version of MP with each character
having a certain amount that increases
the more you level up every time you use
a skill its level and Effectiveness
increases but also it's cost so the
careful use of mixing both standard and
special attacks is the name of the game
if you want to effectively impact the
enemies that come your way but what
makes Soul trigger a bit different when
it comes to progression is the way you
learn new abilities it's done through
the awaken system that sees each weapon
and set of armor possessing potential
skills but they don't trigger until
conditions in battle are just right for
example if your party gets poisoned that
crisis Sparks the knowledge in your
character's mind and they learn to
remove the stats effect when it comes
down to it if you've exhausted many of
the other RPGs on the PSP Sal trigger
offers up a great take on the genre and
definitely something that's worth
playing
through with the release of the first
game back in 2007 a handheld version of
Assassin's Creed was always something
that players had dreamed on and it
wouldn't take long until Ubisoft brought
their Flagship series to the portable
space with Bloodlines is saw players
embarking on another Journey with alier
as he travels to Cypress to upro another
Templar plot to endanger its people the
handheld Vision shares much in common
with its console counterparts and
retains the parkour gameplay that made
the series so memorable you'll find
yourself scaling buildings for an
advantage point or being able to quickly
evade your enemies by Vanishing into the
rooftops above the cities that comprise
the game but just as important as
movement is the combat that caters to
both the stealthy approach and go in all
out when the odds are stacked against
you you've got several weapons to help
turn the tide with your hidden blade
being the most proficient for staying
out the spotlight but also small and
heavy weapons that serve as a last
result once the action heats up the
system is comprised of basic swims that
when used consecutively result in a
combo that slowly beats down the enemy's
defense and leaves them open for a
stylish finisher that sees the camera is
zooming in on the action as alter air
dispatches each Target with Grace you've
also got a counter which is most
effective when you're outnumbered but
it's not a good idea to solely rely on
it as enemies tend to attack at the same
time so constantly staying on your toes
and controlling the flow of each fight
with your swings is the main way to come
out on top for the series first foray
into the portable space Bloodlines prove
that a full-fledged Assassin's Creed
Adventure was possible on the PSP and
although it's not perfect it's still a
rather enjoyable experience especially
for fans of the franchise and Al
story rang Goku 2 put you into the role
of an Android built for battle who gains
self-consciousness and wants to
understand the world around him in order
to do so he must fight his way up a
Tower made of eight different flaws
which all have a trial to overcome these
come in the form of several enemies that
you need to fight and utilize your
unique Android abilities in order to
complete each of your limbs are
controlled by one of the face buttons
with the main goal being to string them
all together in a series of combos to
land as much damage as you can what
makes it even better is the game lets
you customize your body to suit your
style a play if you like violence with a
close Personal Touch then you can set up
your different body parts to be linked
together to focus on melee attacks but
if you like to attack from a distance
there's an impressive amount of variety
to the ranged weapons as well other
strategies could be to stun or overheat
your enemies or to minimize damage to
yourself by concentrating on defensive
Parts such as Shields and regeneration
is you up and expand your character
using points and parts you'll find
plasma cutters needle guns and so much
more left behind by your defeated
enemies that give you an extra Edge in
combat seeing how every new component
appears as it's integrated into your
bizarre adaptive cyber body is one of
the game's most captivating features for
example a heavy stun gun can grow horns
on your head resemble claws on the arm
or protrude like Bones from the
shoulders it's a really intuitive system
which provides countless ways to play
the game despite despite what many say
rang Goku 2 is a solid title with a
surprisingly deep narrative that's only
bolstered by the incredible amount of
customization when it comes to gameplay
if you're looking for a game to lose
hours upon hours to then run Goku 2 will
be right up your
street even though portable Ops wasn't
the franchise's first appearance on the
PSP it was the first true Metal Gear
experience that brought everything that
players know about the series to the PSP
it packed a truly cinematic story
married it with the mechanics that many
have come to know in love all the while
providing a new spin on the tried in
tested formula by offering up a
different take that saw you building an
army of soldiers you find out in the
field due to the portable nature of the
game the decision was made to split it
up into a series of discrete levels
making it perfect for playing in short
bursts whilst on the go they each came
along with their own unique objectives
and more often than not it's simply to
get to the end of the level but often
times there were things to blow up
documents to retrieve or people to
interrogate and bosses to take down as I
mentioned throughout the game you can
recruit almost any enemy you encounter
they can then be added to various units
such as technical medical or spice or
directly into the sneaking unit where
they will accompany you into actual
gameplay this means that in every level
you can have up to four team members
under your control simultaneously each
with different strengths weaknesses
items weapons and skills the upshot of
this is that unless you do something out
of the ordinary most enemies won't pay
attention to you of course playing a
snake is required for certain boss
battles but overall the level of freedom
is quite High allowing you to mess
around with the game's mechanics and
have some fun while a few of the quirks
of the series are missing most likely
due to kima's absence on the development
side the brilliant gameplay remains
intact and although it never reaches the
same Heights of Peace Walker portable
Ops is still a respectable entry for any
fan of the franchise to
enjoy Crimson gem Saga is a jrpg that
hearkens back to the days of old and is
very much a Trad additional experience
in every sense of the word it follows
the fundamental basics of a true jrpg
yet it almost makes fun of the somewhat
archaic formula with tons of humor and
anti-heroes that will likely flip your
expectations on their head for instance
you might open a treasure chest that
contains many potions but the text box
will tell you that your character
dropped a chest and there's only three
potions left or you might discover a
chest that contains piss that restores
your HP only to have a party member tell
you that you're disgusting for drinking
it it's these little jibes that give
Crimson a distinct attitude that it can
call its own but of course that's only
half the story is if the game play
wasn't up to the level of Comedy offered
then it would all be for nothing
thankfully Crimson more than delivers in
this department as well and although
it's quite linear with you traveling
from Village to Village buying new armor
and weapons for your characters and then
battling a bunch of enemies on your way
to the next is still an absolute blast
to play the battle system is ter based
in nature with each of your characters
having a large arsenal of attacks and
every encounter being a fast and
strategic Affair to help facilitate your
Proficiency in battle aside from the
usual equipment and weapon stats you've
got a skill tree system that allows you
to cater each character to your approach
and customize them all to your heart's
content easily it's one of the best
jrpgs on the PSP and although it can
unexpectedly get quite difficult it's
nothing that ruins the game as a whole
and rather just challenges you to get
better so if you can find it it's for
sure one game that deserves a spot in
your collection as well
the third birthday took a huge departure
from the first and second entry in the
Parasite Eve series which instead took
the survival horror RPG and completely
redefined it as a third person shooter
you once again took on the fighters Aya
as you set out to take down a mysterious
interdimensional enemy only known as the
Twisted who have invaded the world and
caused chaos for Humanity now when it
comes to gamepl you'll be visiting a
wide variety of locals that see you
traveling the world and utilizing an
extremely wide range of Weaponry in
order to tackle the Twisted the best
thing about it is that some light RPG
elements are still included that allow
you to upgrade your weapons and
abilities over time that always sees you
one step ahead of your enemies and even
though the PSP doesn't have a second
analog stick the gameplay never feels
cumbersome thanks to being able to
instantly lock onto your enemies with
the touch of a button further enhancing
your chances of survival is also
something known as the over dive
mechanic that sees a being able to
instantly transport into the body of any
of the number of NPCs that litter the
battlefield coordinating your men and
Diving around the map to hit enemies
from different Vantage points leaves
lots of room for strategy levels to
dominate The Twisted and whilst focusing
on one enemy you can link your psyche
with the rest of your team and utilize
the crossfire ability that sees all of
them concentrating their fire on a
single Target making it perfect for some
of the more challenging boss fights that
await you for a third person shooter the
third birthday is quite easily one of
the best examples of the genre on the
PSP but for fans of the first two games
it might just be a bit too much of a
change to handle nevertheless if you can
find it on a cheap it is definitely
worth giving a
go Fantasy Star online Portable 2
Infinity has to be one of the strongest
entries in the series that began way
back in 2000 on the Dreamcast
unfortunately it never got a release
outside of Japan but it's now thankfully
fully translated for fans with no
understanding of the language to enjoy
much like the other games you start off
by creating a character and selecting
from a range of classes which all have a
role to play on the battlefield you've
got this game's version of healers Mages
and tanks allowing you to tackle the
range of missions that make up the
adventure in a way that suits your play
style best the game has a very linear
flow to it with most of your time being
spent in a sort of Hub area that allows
you to buy items weapons and armor and
select from various quests that see you
being transported to one of many planets
to complete your objectives this usually
takes the form of making your way
through a certain location mopping up
the enemies on the way and ultimately
culminating in a boss fight that will
test your skills and understanding of
the mechanics in play to the limit at
its core the battle system is quite
simple if you having an attack and a
special skill known as a photon art
however your normal attack has a sort of
Rhythm to it or timing if you manage to
hit it correctly these attacks will
increase in power as you consecutively
land hits this system has the same
addictive qualities that the original
PSO had and it feels just as great as
ever offering a fantastic story deep
character cust mization upgraded
gameplay mechanics and a nonon endless
amount of content to make your way
through Fantasy Star Portable to
Infinity is quite easily one of the best
action RPGs that you can find on the PSP
well that does it for today's video keep
an eye out for part three as that will
be coming up soon so don't forget to
subscribe and hit that Bell to get
notified about new videos you can follow
me on all of the socials which are
linked below to stay up to date and also
join my growing community on Discord to
meet many like-minded gamers to continue
the conversation with I'd like to give a
special shout out to my patreon
supporters Rhino skill Jim shudan
Richard Amy Daniel Dio Omar Strider
Pierre Carl awesome jacket dude maxus
Scott Alfred Terry Ryan Alex GameCube
galaxy C Salman fake ELO and Patty J for
their continued support that helps make
these videos possible if you're
interested in joining my Discord or
supporting the channel through patreon
you'll find all of these links down
below as always thanks for taking the
time to check the video out I'll catch
you next time
[Music]
he